On day one more then 800 students are presented foe online test it consist of two parts.
1. Aptitude reasoning test.

Questions: 30.
Dur: 40 mins.

It is very easy it don't contain any aptitude maths it contains logical qus like seating arrangement, non verbal, blood relation, syllogism, data sufficiency, odd man out and more reasoning questions. When attending Infosys Interview verbal section is very important. So be prepared.

2. Verbal ability.

Questions: 40.
Time: 35 mins.

It is fully verbal like fill in the blanks, sentence correction, choose the best option to replace the underlined word and it has 2 reading comprehension. While attending this section time management and concentration is very important for me it feels a bit tougher. And by the evening we got the result and I received a mail for attending next day Interview.

For the second day 102 were appeared from different colleges. The recruitment team we met was very friendly they change our mind set with there talk it becomes so fun in the waiting room. After that technical and hr round is conducted at a same time. They ask some basic concepts like prime number is 183 is a prime or not and all the basic program like reverse a string, fibo, fact.

And he asked me questions from my resume so prepare your resume properly with true information if you add some extra what you don't know then you are really get into trouble so be careful with your resume. I had asked questions from my resume with a example they test your communication skill even if you are not fluent try to talk continuously and convey him what your trying to say.

I don't did my hr Interview well I had lot of problems to answer the questions raised by HR from my resume because it has some additional things. But I never give up and managed to answer. I think o will get rejected. By in the evening we got our result and I was selected. From 102, 45 get selected. Be bold and confidence enough to answer all the questions they mainly see your communication and basic technical. Your resume is very important so make your resume with what you really know.
