Tech 1
1. Tell me about yourself briefly
Tech 2
1. What are class templates?
2. Write a program using class template?
3. Write a program to find the second largest and second smallest number in an array?
4. Suppose you have 1gb file, and got 500mb RAM how would you arrange the files?
5. Write a sql query to find the details of the employees who has the highest salary in the employee table?
Tech 2
2. What are different types of memory allocation in c++? and explain them also?


1. Introduction (Describe your projects well)
2. asked project related questions
3. asked OOP's concepts then he asked to implement the concepts ( Beware before hand to practice and share screen)
4. The he gave a coding question in google meet chat box it was max buying and selling of stocks
5. he have a sql query simple again be careful to practice before hand you have to show them share screen

2nd Round (Technical Round)

Now this company mostly works on java applications, so make sure to brush up your java concepts. If they want, they can grill you on java only.

For me, the interviewer went through my entire resume and made sure i knew each thing i mentioned in my resume.

He firstly started with C.

Q1. How to read data from a file in C?
Q2. What are the parameters of fopen() ?
Q3. What is the return type of fclose() ?
Q4. What is a structure ?
Q5. Dynamic allocation of memory using malloc function.
Q6. Append Two Strings in C without using an inbuilt function.

Now he switched to JAVA.

Q7. Name some collection classes in Java.
Q8. Whats difference between Operator Overloading & Operator Overriding.
Q9. What is Data-Hiding ?
Q10. Is encapsulation a type of Data-Hiding ?
Q11. Why is Java called Platform Independent?
Q12. What are the phases of Java Code Compilation?
Q13. Do you have any idea about JDBC ?

Now, questions from other topics mentioned in my resume were asked.

Q14. What are the different phases of Software development life cycle?

Q15. What is Dynammic Programming ?

Q16. Basic SQL Query : There is a employee table with columns : age , name , id , gender. Find the number of employees that have age greater than 25.
[ Answer : “SELECT COUNT(id) FROM emp_table WHERE age > 25″ ]

Q17. What is Normalization ?

Q18. What are the different forms of Normalization?

Q19. What is the concept of pipe-lining ?

DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR ME ?

Out of 45 students, approximately 30 students made it to the next round. And i was one of them.

3rd Round (HR Round)

Q1. Tell me something about yourself.
Q2. Tell me about your background and where are you from.
Q3. Why have you applied for this company ?
Q4. What did you like about Pre Placement Talk ? [Tip : Make sure to collect points from the Pre Pacement Talk]
Q5. And most importantly, what did you disliked about the Pre Placement Talk ? Be Honest !!!
 [ My answer made her smile. And i thought i messed up there, but the exact opposite happened. 
She was impressed by my answer. ]
Q6. What are your hobbies ?
Q7. What all you experienced during your Internships ?

DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR ME ?

