1.When it was morning they decided to put at an inn.
A.put out in
B.put off at
C.put at
D.put up at
Ans. d

2.The police have so far succeeded in recovering only a part of the stolen property.
A.so far succeeded to recover
B.as for as succeeded in recovery of
C.so far succeeded in recovery of
D.No correction required
Ans. d

3.Identify which part of the question has error A property dealer was /shoot dead by four unidentified jacket-clad men /while taking a morning walk /in a park.
A.A property dealer was
B.shoot dead by four unidentified jacket-clad men
C.while taking a morning walk
D.in a park.
Ans. b

4.The number of tourists / is expected to rise / from seven to ten percent / in the next ten years.
A.The number of tourists
B.is expected to rise
C.from seven to ten percent
D.in the next ten years
Ans. c

5.The third season of / the popular television show will ends / on a grand note with / celebrities dancing and having fun.
A.The third season of
B.the popular television show will ends
C.on a grand note with
D.celebrities dancing and having fun
Ans. b

6.Among the litany of threats that many Israelis face, the potential for a nuclear-armed Iran is perhaps the more  scary as this scenario could engulf the region in a violent war. This would likely result in historically unseen amounts of destruction, even for a region whose history is marred by perennial violence.
A.perhaps the more
B.perhaps the most
C.possibly, perhaps the most
D.possibly the greatest
E.possibly the great
Ans. b

7.The mole is a nocturnal insectivorous mammal regarded as pests by gardeners because of their burrowing activity spoiling lawns and gardens.
A.regarded as pests by gardeners because of their burrowing activity spoiling
B.regarded to be pests by gardeners because of their burrowing activity’s spoiling
C.regarded as a pest by gardeners because of burrowing activity spoiling
D.considered as a pest by gardeners because of its burrowing activity spoiling
E.regarded as a pest by gardeners because its burrowing activity spoils lawns and gardens.
Ans.d

8.The population of tigers in the National Park is increasing steadily, and this is a source of encouragement to those who have worked so hard to fund the conservation effort.
A.steadily, and this
B.steadily: which
C.steadily; this trend
D.steadily, this increase
E.steady, and this
Ans. c

9.If the gardener would sow the seeds in the greenhouse rather than the garden, he might get a better display of flowers.
A.If the gardener would sow the seeds in the greenhouse rather than the garden
B.If the gardener sowed the seeds in the greenhouse rather than the garden
C.If the gardener would sow the seeds in the greenhouse rather than in the garden
D.If the gardener were to sow the seeds in the greenhouse rather than in the garden
E.If the gardener would sow the seeds in the greenhouse instead of the garden
Ans. d

10.Environmentalists associated with the United Nations Environment Programme predict that if the current trends associated with global warming continue, thousands of acres of pristine land is in danger to undergo potentially irrevocable changes that could alter the planet’s ecosystem forever.
A.is in danger to undergo
B.are in danger of undergoing
C.is in danger of undergoing
D.are in danger to undergo
E.are in danger for undergoing
